# Chapter 4: How Objects Behave

## Arguments and parameters

In short:  
A caller passes arguments. A method takes parameters.  
Arguments means `实参`, while parameters means `形参`  

But, who cares? We can call them whatever we like. **That's not the point.**

## Passing by value is passing by copy

Change the value of parameters inside a method. The value of arguments passed by caller doesn't change!

The method can't change the bits that were in the calling arguments.

## Return type and return value

We don't have to return the exact type we declared. Values passed in and out of methods can be **implicitly** promoted to a **larger** type or **explicitly** cast to a **smaller** type.

We don't have to do something with the return value of a method. **We can ignore the return value**.

## Encapsulation

Exposed means reachable with the dot operator`.`, as in: `theCat.height = 27;`  
If somebody write this: `theCat.height = 0;`, that would be a **bad** thing.  
So we need to build **setter methods** for all the instance variables.  
For example:  

```java
public void setHeight(int ht) {
    if (ht > 9) {
        height = ht;
    }
}
```

### Hide the data

An encapsulation starter rule of thumb:

> mark instance variables **private**.  
> mark getters and setters **public**.

When we have more design and code savvy in Java, we'll probably do things a little **differently**.  
For example:

```java
class GoodDog {
    private int size;

    public int getSize() {
        return size;
    }

    public void setSize(int s) {
        size = s;
    }
}
```

Even though you don't really add new functionality, you can change you mind later without affecting others code.

## Declaring and initializing instance variables

If you don't explicitly assign a value to an instance variable, the instance variable always have a default value. **Number primitives** get `0`, **booleans** get `false`, and **object reference variables** get `null`.

## Instance and Local variables

- **Instance** variables are declared *inside a class* but not within a method.  
- **Local** variables are declared *within a method*.  
- **Local** variables *MUST be initialized* before use!  

  ```java
  class Foo {
    public void go() {
        int x;
        int z = x + 3;  //This won't compile!!!
    }
  }
  ```
  
  'Cause Local variables do NOT get a default value!

## Object equality

Primitives: Use `==` to compare left and right.

References: Use `==` to see if two references refer to the same object. Use the `equals()` method to see if two different objects are equal.

`==` only check if the bit pattern is the same whether the variable is a reference or primitive.
