# Chapter 5: Extra-Strength Methods

We need more tools. Like **operators** and **loops**

## Test-Driven Development

Test-Driven Development Derive from **Extreme Programming** (XP). It also called **TDD**. Here is a partial list of key ideas in TDD:

- Write the test code first.
- Develop in iteration cycles.
- Keep the code simple.
- Refactor (improve the code) whenever and wherever you notice the opportunity.
- Don't release anything until it passes all the tests.
- Don't put in anything that's not in the spec (no matter how tempted you are to put in functionality "for the future").
- No killer schedules; work regular hours.

## Enhanced for loop

A normal `for` loop format is:

```java
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    //TODO
}
```

This is the same as C++ `for` loop.

Since Java 5, there's a new enhanced `for` loop:

```java
for (int cell : locationCells) {
    //TODO
}
```

Each time through the loop, the next element in the array will be assigned to the variable *cell*. When your loop needs to iterate over the elements in an array (or another collection), you can use the enhanced `for` loop.

This is similar with `for i in <list>` in linux shell.

Somebody refer to the enhanced `for` loop as the **for each** or the **for in** loop, because that's how it reads: "for EACH thing IN the collection..."

## Casting primitives

### Integer and integer

To force the compiler to jam the value of a bigger primitive variable into a smaller one, we can use the cast operator:

```java
long y = 42;
int x = (int) y;    //x = 42
```

This is telling the compiler that take the value of y, chop it down to int size, and set `x` equal to whatever is left. For example:

```java
long y = 40002;         //0x0000 0000 0000 9c42
short x = (short) y;    //0x9c42
```

`0x9c42` is the complement code of -25534, so the value of `x` is -25534.

### Floating-point number and integer

We can also cast a floating-point number to a integer:

```java
float f = 3.14f;
int x = (int) f;    //x will equal 3
```

This will only get the integer part of the floating-point number.

### Boolean

DO NOT even think about casting anything to a boolean or vice versa. Because boolean can only be `true` or `false` and cannot be `1` or `0`. This is different from C/C++.
