# Chapter 8: Serious Polymorphism

To exploit polymorphism, we need interfaces.

## Abstract

If you declare an abstract method, you **MUST** mark the class abstract as well.

The first concrete class in the inheritance tree is responsible for implementing all the abstract methods.

You can't instantiate an abstract class, but you **CAN** make an array object declared to **HOLD** that type.

## Object

Any class that doesn't explicitly extend another class, implicitly extends the Object class.

The Object class has four methods we really care about.

### equals(Object o)

Tells you if two object are considered `equal`

```java
Dog a = new Dog();
Cat c = new Cat();

if (a.equals(c)) {
    System.out.println("true");
} else {
    System.out.println("false");
}
```

```shell
$ java TestObject
false
```

### getClass()

Give you back the class that object was instantiated from.

```java
Cat c = new Cat();
System.out.println(c.getClass());
```

```shell
$ java TestObject
class Cat
```

### hashCode()

Print out a hashcode for the object.

```java
Cat c = new Cat();
System.out.println(c.hashCode());
```

```shell
$ java TestObject
8202111
```

`8202111` might be something else.

### toString()

Print out a String message with the name of the class and some other number we rarely care about.

```java
Cat c = new Cat();
System.out.println(c.toString());
```

```shell
$ java TestObject
Cat@7d277f
```

## Casting an object reference

If you want to cast an object reference to a subclass reference, you must explicitly cast the object reference.

```java
Object o = al.get(index);
Dog d = (Dog) o;
d.roam();
```

However, if you're wrong when you do the cast, you'll get a `ClassCastException` at runtime and come to a grinding halt.

You can use the `instanceof` operator to check if an object is an instance of a class.

```java
if (o instanceof Dog) {
    Dog d = (Dog) o;
}
```

## Interface

A Java interface solves your multiple inheritance problem by giving the polymorphic benefits of multiple inheritance without the pain and suffering from the Deadly Diamond of Death(DDD).

### DEFINE an interface

```java
public interface Pet {
    void beFriendly();
    void play();
    // Interface methods are implicitly public and abstract
    // It's redundant to declare them as such
    // public abstract void beFriendly();
    // public abstract void play();
}       
```

### IMPLEMENT an interface

```java
public class Dog extends Canine implements Pet {

    // implement
    public void beFriendly() {...}
    public void play() {...}

    // override
    public void roam() {...}
    public void eat() {...}
}
```

To implement multiple interfaces, use a comma-separated list.

For example:

```java
public class Dog implements Pet, Saveable, Paintable {
    // TODO
}
```

### What interface really buy you

If you use interfaces as arguments or return types, you can pass **anything that implements that interface**

## How to choose

- Make a **class** that ***doesn't extend anything*** (other than Object) when your new class ***doesn't pass the IS-A test for any other type***.

- Make a **subclass** (in other words, extend a class) only when you need to make a ***more specific*** version of a class and need to ***override or add new behavior***.

- Use an **abstract class** when you want to define a ***template for a group of subclasses***, and you ***have at least some implementation code that all subclasses could use***. Make the class abstract when you want to ***guarantee that nobody can make objects of that type***.

- Use an interface when you want to define a ***role that other classes can play, regardless of where those classes are in the inheritance tree***. Interfaces are also useful when you don't know about the entire class hierarchy, yet you just want to specify how certain things should behave.
