# Chapter 7: Better Living in Objectville

## Inheritance

We say that the subclass extends the superclass. When we want to know if one thing should extend another, apply the IS-A test.

### IS-A test

To know if you've designed your types correctly, ask, "Does it make sense to say type X IS-A type Y?".

For example:

- Triangle extends Shape, and Triangle IS-A Shape
- Cat extends Feline, and Cat IS-A Feline
- Surgeon extends Doctor, and Surgeon IS-A Doctor

Tub extends Bathroom, sounds reasonable. However, Tub IS-NOT-A Bathroom. So Tub should not be a subclass of Bathroom.

### HAS-A test

Bathroom HAS-A Tub. So Bathroom should have a Tub instance variable.

### More about IS-A test

If class B extends class A, class B IS-A class A. This is true anywhere in the inheritance tree. If class C extends class B, class C passes the IS-A test for both B and A, and class C also extends class A.

### Append code to the superclass

If you don't want to completely replace the superclass's method, but just want to add a little bit to it, you can do that by calling the superclass's version of the method using the keyword **super** and then adding your own code.

```java
public void roam() {
    super.roam();
    // your own roam code
}
```

## Rules for overriding

- Arguments must be the same, and return types must be compatible.
  > The overriding method must declare either the **same type** as the method in the superclass, or a **subclass type** of the type declared in the superclass.

- The method can't be less accessible.
  > The access level must be the same, or friendlier.

## Overloading a method

Method overloading is nothing more than having two methods with the **same name** but **different argument lists**.

- THe return types can be different, or even the same.
- The argument lists MUST be different.
- The access level can vary in any direction.
